                              Program BFILM
                             17 December 2011


bfilm [directory] [options]

Creates the full film directory from the original pictures and possibly a
existing PDOC file (see PDOC documentation file).

The first command line argument is the film directory name.  The default
is the current directory.  Various subdirectories within the film
directory will be accessed:

  ORIG  -  The original images must be stored here.  BFILM will only read
    from here.  Image files should be in JPG format.

  RAW  -  Optional raw files.  If a file in RAW exists with the same generic
    name as a source image in ORIG, then that file is assumed to be the
    raw image corresponding to the ORIG image.  The pixel data of a raw
    image is not used, but other non-image data will be used from the raw
    file if it is defaulted in the PDOC file.  The date/time stamp of the
    raw file will be used as the picture date if this was defaulted in the
    PDOC file and no such information is explicitly stored in the raw
    image file (like in EXIF format).

  1024  -  Created if not already existing.  Contains original image
    resized so that the maximum dimension is 1024 pixels.  A image of the
    same generic name as the ORIG image is created if it does not already
    exist, or if it does exist but the system date/time stamp shows it
    being older than the ORIG image.

  600  -  For 600 pixel maximum dimension versions of ORIG images.  This
    directory is created if it does not already exist.  A image is created
    here if the corresponding image in 1024 is created or recreated.

  200  -  For 200 pixel maximum dimension versions of ORIG images.  This
    directory is created if it does not already exist.  A image is created
    here if the corresponding image in 1024 is created or recreated.

  66  -  For 66 pixel maximum dimension versions of ORIG images.  This
    directory is created if it does not already exist.  A image is created
    here if the corresponding image in 1024 is created or recreated.

  HTML  -  All but the top level HTML file for this film will be put here.
    This directory is created if it does not already exist.  All HTML
    files are written each time BFILM is run, whether previously existing
    or not.

The top level HTML file for the film is called INDEX.HTM, is always
written, and is placed directly in the top level of the film directory.

If a PDOC file exists with the generic name of the film directory, then it
is read to get specific information about each picture.  The original source
versions of each picture is a JPG file in the ORIG directory with its
generic name the frame name.

Information that is defaulted in the PDOC file will be taken from the RAW
image if present.  The program IMAGE_INFO can be used to display the
non-image information stored in a image file.  The date/time stamp of the
ORIG picture is used as the picture time if this is defaulted in the PDOC
file and the RAW image is not present.  Otherwise, the only information
taken from the ORIG image is the image data itself.

By default, all the collected information is written to the PDOC file.  If
no PDOC file originally existed, then it is created.  The resulting PDOC
file will always have any available information filled in.  The first time
BIFLM is run, information from the RAW and possibly ORIG images may be added
to the PDOC file.  However, if not changes are made to the film directory,
subsequent BFILM runs will produce the same PDOC file.

The command line options are:

  -NU

    Do not update or create the PDOC file.  The original PDOC file, if
    any, is left unaltered.

  -DIR filname
